README.md, before:

# 📑 Personal Blog (Underdevelopement 🚧)

## 🟢 Features Implemented

- Server Side Rendering with static site rendering. 🔃
- Markdown using React Markdown. 📝
- Code syntax highlighting. 👨‍💻
- Custom SEO component with all the important meta tags. 🥇
- Debouncing for the searchBlog Component. ⌚
- Added Sitemap at [http://localhost:3000/sitemap.xml](http://localhost:3000/sitemap.xml) 🛣️

## 🟡 To be implemented

- Structured Data for JSON-LD
- Content clustering by implementing related post component. (Will be doing only when i have enough blogs up and running on my site)
- Mailing list 📨
- Add sense 📺
- Analytics (Only after deoloying) 📈
- Scroll to top 🔝

# 🧑‍💻 Tech Used So far

- NextJS
- Tailwind
- StrapiCMS
- ReactMarkdown
- Prism React Renderer

<!-- This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

[API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) can be accessed on [http://localhost:3000/api/hello](http://localhost:3000/api/hello). This endpoint can be edited in `pages/api/hello.js`.

The `pages/api` directory is mapped to `/api/*`. Files in this directory are treated as [API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) instead of React pages.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details. -->

Commit message:

share post and navbar improved

README.md, after:

# 📑 Personal Blog (Underdevelopement 🚧)

## 🟢 Features Implemented

- Server Side Rendering with static site rendering. 🔃
- Markdown using React Markdown. 📝
- Code syntax highlighting. 👨‍💻
- Share blog to social media like Twitter, Facebook, Whatsapp, LinkedIn. 🧑‍🏫
- Custom SEO component with all the important meta tags. 🥇
- Debouncing for the searchBlog Component. ⌚
- Added Sitemap at [http://localhost:3000/sitemap.xml](http://localhost:3000/sitemap.xml) 🛣️

## 🟡 To be implemented

- Structured Data for JSON-LD
- Content clustering by implementing related post component. (Will be doing only when i have enough blogs up and running on my site)
- Mailing list 📨
- Add sense 📺
- Analytics (Only after deoloying) 📈
- Scroll to top 🔝

# 🧑‍💻 Tech Used So far

- NextJS
- Tailwind
- StrapiCMS
- ReactMarkdown
- Prism React Renderer

<!-- This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

[API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) can be accessed on [http://localhost:3000/api/hello](http://localhost:3000/api/hello). This endpoint can be edited in `pages/api/hello.js`.

The `pages/api` directory is mapped to `/api/*`. Files in this directory are treated as [API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) instead of React pages.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details. -->
